after days of argument over the precise
wording the United Nations security
Council has passed a resolution on the
conflict in Gaza calling for the
unhindered delivery of humanitarian
assistance but stopping short of
supporting an immediate ceasefire
instead it urges the creation of the
conditions for a cessation of
hostilities 13 council members voted for
it with the US and Russia abstaining a
UN agency has warned that gaza's entire
population is at risk of starvation in a
moment will be reporting on the
situation on the ground in Gaza but
first to Washington and our
correspondent there John sudworth
John well the mere fact that there is an
agreement is for many people Rita a
success in itself diplomats ahead of the
vote today speaking of the dire
humanitarian need in Gaza and that
concern is certainly front and center of
this resolution but it is also
undoubtedly a compromise the US making
its position clear through days of
torturous negotiations that there was no
point demanding that Israel stop
fighting or that it give up its
insistence on screening and monitoring
the aid going across the Gaza border if
it has simply no intention of doing
either after the long drawn out
diplomacy the Drafting and redrafting
finally the Moment of
Truth the wide show of support from most
Security Council Members was no surprise
the resolution the UAE has put in blue
this morning morning responds to the
calls for a sustainable cessation of
hostilities and a massive scale up of
humanitarian Aid often in diplomacy the
challenge is meeting the moment in the
world we live in not in the world that
we want all eyes were on the US and
Russia in the end they both abstained
but it wasn't a veto and so the
resolution
passed on the ground its immediate
practical implications may be limited
the US did much to tone down the
language motivated by what it sees as
Israel's right to keep
fighting so the call for an immediate
ceasefire has gone replaced instead with
a call only for the conditions that
might eventually lead to
one and the insistence in earlier drafts
that the United Nations take control of
the delivery of Aid has also been struck
out the final version Now talks of
Consulting all relevant parties
as always the geopolitics were never far
from the
surface with Russia describing the us as
shameful for not calling for a ceasefire
the US in turn dismissed that claim
given Russia's actions in Ukraine and
then made clear it had lingering
concerns of its own while we are
encouraged that the council spoke out on
this humanitarian crisis we're deeply
disappointed a called actually that once
again the council was not able to
condemn hamas's horrific terrorist
attack on October
7th despite the differences though there
is now agreement on the scale of the
crisis in Gaza and the intent at least
to do more to address it John sudworth
BBC News
Washington well in Gaza itself the Hamas
run health authority says more than
20,000 people have been killed by
Israeli forces and it emerged today that
an American Israeli hostage being held
by Hamas designated a terrorist
organization by the UK government is
believed to have died in captivity
President Biden said he was heartbroken
by the news our Middle East
correspondent Lucy Williamson reports
now from
Jerusalem when Israel and Hamas refused
to budge from their positions the people
of Gaza must move instead with the road
to negotiations blocked the war roams
free bed Camp the latest Target for
evacuation warnings some like Jihad had
fled here to escape the fighting
elsewhere the situation inside the camp
is dire people are dying others are
evacuating the conditions are extremely
challenging there's a shortage of
blankets clothes essential
items NASA Hospital in Han Yunis one of
just nine still functioning in Gaza the
pal inan red Cresent says epidemics are
taking hold because of a lack of food
and
Medicine Maha brought her son Zed here
suffering from a lung infection blood
clots and convulsions he spent 18 days
in intensive care nowhere is safe
nowhere is clean I'm in despair because
there's no solution even if my child is
okay there's nowhere safe for us to go
even the hospital is not clean
I don't know where to turn I'm exhausted
and my child is slowly
dying new analysis suggests that 2third
of Northern Gaza has been destroyed seen
from space researchers say Gaza is now a
different color and
texture Israel says the war in Gaza will
continue until Hamas is destroyed that
it's killed thousands of the group's
Fighters Unearthed vast tunnel Networks
but Hamas Rockets are still being fired
into Israel and today another Israeli
hostage was reported dead Gaddy Hagi a
73-year-old musician kidnapped from
kibuts near Oz along with his wife
Judy Muhammad was just weeks old When
The War Began his grandfather buried him
today along with his mother and father
all killed in a strike on Rafa overnight
the price of War paid by a baby whose
grandfather will never now know peace
Lucy Williamson BBC News
Jerusalem let's go back to John sudworth
in Washington uh John if the UN
resolution as you said has little
immediate practical impact what does
happen
next well as so often in diplomacy Rita
points of high principle have
surrendered to real politic there is no
call for an immediate ceasefire the UN
has failed in its efforts to wrestle
control of Aid flows into Gaza away from
Israel so you know you might well ask
that question what is the point then of
this resolution of broad principle I
think in the end for those who say that
this has achieved something the
important thing isn't just the agreement
itself but the fact that it now has the
backing of really the only outside power
that has clout in this conflict Israel's
staunch al Ally the United States and of
course this resolution although Israel
may choose to ignore the letter of it
does have the force of international law
and the US can perhaps behind the scenes
now use this to pressure Israel some
observers will hope to do more to
minimize civilian casualties and to work
harder to increase those flows of Aid
into Gaza